Basics of Probability:

Explaing what are these Random Experiment, Trial, Outcomes, Sample Space and Eventg

Random Experiment: Tossing a coin.

Trial: Each time you toss the coin.

Outcomes: The results can be either Heads (H) or Tails (T).

Sample Space (S): The set of all possible outcomes, which is {H, T}.

Event (E): If we're interested in getting a Head, then the event is {H}. If we're interested in getting a Tail, then the event is {T}.



Types of Events in Probability: Definitions

1. Simple Event:
A simple event consists of exactly one outcome.

2. Compound Event:
A compound event consists of two or more simple events.

3. Certain Event:
A certain event is an event that is sure to happen. Its probability is 1.

4. Impossible Event:
An impossible event is an event that cannot happen. Its probability is 0.

5. Mutually Exclusive Events:
Two events are mutually exclusive if they cannot happen at the same time.

6. Exhaustive Events:
Events are exhaustive if they cover all possible outcomes of a random experiment.

7. Independent Events:
Two events are independent if the occurrence of one does not affect the occurrence of the other.

8. Dependent Events:
Two events are dependent if the occurrence of one affects the occurrence of the other.

9. Complementary Events:
The complement of an event A is the event that A does not occur.



What is Probability

Probability is the measure of the likelihood that an event will occur. It is quantified as a number between 0 and 1, where 0 indicates that an event will not occur, and 1 indicates that an event will certainly occur. Probability can be expressed as a fraction, a decimal, or a percentage.


Types of Probability 

1. Empirical Probability or Experiment Probability -
 Empirical probability, also known as experimental probability, is a probability measure that is based on observed data, rather than theoretical assumptions. It's calculated as the ratio of the number of tims a particular event occur to the total number of trials.

2. Theoretical probability - 
 Theoretical or classic probability is used when each outcome in a sample space is equally likely to occur. If we denote an event of interest as Event A, we calculate the theoretical probability of that event 


 Random variable - In the context of probability theory, a random variable is a function that maps the outcomes of a random process [known as sample space] to a set of real numbers.

We denote random variable in capital letters = X

Input: The Input to the function is an outcome from the sample space of a random process.


Output: The output of the function is a real number that we assign to each possible outcome.
